Kevin Connolly: But a bit speculative. I know, sorry we're over time, but, you know, it's upside. I did have some do's and don'ts. There's basically, like, research companies, definitely look them up. I screen candidates sometimes are like, they know nothing about Ashby's, like, come on.
Kevin Connolly: I… when I entered the job market, I think I did something obvious, but it's useful to repeat. I just read literally every data scientist job posting, regardless of company, just to aggregate all the responsibilities, and then I looked for
Kevin Connolly: these are the core responsibilities for this role I'm interested in, and then you can also see how roles differentiate, because they'll have the same job title, but they'll actually be different at different companies, depending. And then you can start to work on filling in where you might know you have gaps, if you're honest with yourself.
Kevin Connolly: I'm like, I didn't have this skill set, it's in every job posting. I should probably start to round that out while I'm doing job hunting.
Kevin Connolly: please do not ask random hiring managers for a quick chat about their role. There's two… two views. One, you should definitely network and get to know people if you can, but I will get 50 people asking to chat for 15 minutes about a role I post, and it's like, I do not… I can't even screen
Kevin Connolly: 20 people, like, I can't make time for 50 conversations about whether or not you want to even consider applying to the role. Like, just apply if you're a good fit, we'll chat. And I do think there's a good version
Kevin Connolly: Bad version is, like, let's hop on a call, they're, like, just trying to form a connection, and I'd say the good version is express your interest at if you want. Make it a zero-ask comment, though. Like, I've read the role, I know the company, I'm excited, I hope we get to talk.
Kevin Connolly: It would be wonderful, and I understand if we don't,
Kevin Connolly: I think many hiring managers would appreciate that level of interest and appreciate the understanding of the position they're in.
Kevin Connolly: And then, somewhat contrary to that, even if you don't see a role posted, you should still try to figure out a way to see if the company needs something like that, so you can follow them on LinkedIn, you can follow them on Twitter, you can
Kevin Connolly: Follow the hiring managers. You can even… they'll have, like, talent communities, sometimes you can join them. Those are passive sourcing, like, the companies will be looking into those members to see if there's a good fit for when they're gonna open a role in the future.
Kevin Connolly: And you can always say, I didn't see a role, but I'd love to work there. And that's much easier to process when you're not in the middle of hiring. Like, if I just got 2,000 applications and somebody says, I want to chat, it's, like, not happening. If I don't have a role posted and somebody says, I want to chat, I might actually talk to them, because I'm not as busy.
Kevin Connolly: Just to nail that point. So, Sarah, our CEO, just posted this on Twitter the other day, with this highlight being here.
Kevin Connolly: all about hiring, but he said if there's… if this is the type of work you love, reach out to us, even if you don't see a perfect fit on our website. You know, so, like, there's… there's a bit of two worlds here. One is just, like, people are busy, but, like, don't self-select out.
Kevin Connolly: Especially if you're really excited about the company. And then, if you get a call, you just have to, have to be prepared to know the company. I've been on screening calls where somebody said something like.
Kevin Connolly: I'm just really interested in the medical space, so I was, like, excited about Ashby. I was like, I'm sorry, like, what are you talking about? We don't do anything about medical. Like, you effectively have failed the interview with your first statement, unless they can, like, recover,
Kevin Connolly: Yeah, and then take rejection gracefully, because, it's not about
Kevin Connolly: you, a candidate as an individual. It's about a collection of people, and there's a lot of talented people in the world.
Kevin Connolly: And you yourself can be very, very, very talented and a great fit, but there's just… there's hard decisions and, like, a few other folks that made the cut first.
Kevin Connolly: And I have rejected people and then hired them 2 months later. And that's the thing, like…
Kevin Connolly: Good companies are growing, they need to hire in the future,
Kevin Connolly: If you take it gracefully, express your interest, and understand, the door remains open.
Kevin Connolly: If, you fire off some angry email in the door.
Kevin Connolly: it shuts permanently, kind of thing. And every time you get rejected doesn't mean you need that job. Sometimes you're dodging a bullet. You know, it could be like… I… there were many companies I applied to that I didn't get a job, and they all went to zero over, like.
Kevin Connolly: 5-plus year timescale, so I was like, well, I could have spent 5 years working at that company.
Kevin Connolly: To… Go to zero slowly, and…
Kevin Connolly: You know, it's a saving grace, it's hard to know.
Kevin Connolly: Okay, sorry I went way over timing.